<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@contract-case/case-plugin-base](./case-plugin-base.md) &gt; [ConfigurationErrorCodes](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.md)

## ConfigurationErrorCodes interface

These are the error codes, emitted by every CaseConfigurationError. The documentation here provides additional information that should hopefully help if the information in the error message is unclear.

Some of the errors print advice. This advice can be overridden by setting an entry in the `adviceOverrides` configuration map (keyed by the error code that you want to override errors for). This feature exists for users who have wrapped ContractCase with some common boilerplate, or who have a dedicated team looking after their contract testing infrastructure.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export interface ConfigurationErrorCodes 
```

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[BAD\_INTERACTION\_DEFINITION](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.bad_interaction_definition.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'BAD\_INTERACTION\_DEFINITION'


</td><td>

Used when an interaction definition isn't valid.

Because interaction definitions are very flexible, it's sometimes possible to pass the wrong matcher at an inappropriate time. For example, it could be possible to specify that an http response code must be a complex object - which should never be possible.

If you're getting this code, it means that the matching engine has discovered that the expectations in your interaction aren't valid.

Although the type system tries to prevent invalid interaction definitions, this isn't always possible in all target languages, so ContractCase's default plugins try to detect this and fail with a helpful error message.

Usually this means you'll need to update your interaction definition. The error message should have more information.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CASE\_CRASH\_ADVICE](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.case_crash_advice.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'CASE\_CRASH\_ADVICE'


</td><td>

This error code is never emitted, it exists to allow the advice given in the crash reporter to be overridden.

Hopefully, you didn't know the crash reporter exists - when ContractCase crashes, it prints the stack trace and asks the user to report the crash as a bug. This code can be used to replace the bug report request part of the crash report.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DISK\_IO\_PROBLEM](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.disk_io_problem.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'DISK\_IO\_PROBLEM'


</td><td>

Used for when a file access problem happened trying to write a contract file. This usually means ContractCase has been given a bad path, is out of disk space, or some other I/O error has occurred.

The error message should have additional information here.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[INVALID\_CONFIG](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.invalid_config.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'INVALID\_CONFIG'


</td><td>

Used for when a configuration value is outside its normal range. The error message alongside this code should tell you what specifically went wrong.

In most cases this class of error is prevented with the type system.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[INVALID\_LIFECYCLE](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.invalid_lifecycle.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'INVALID\_LIFECYCLE'


</td><td>

A lifecycle method was called out of order.

Check that your code has the method calls in the right order.

Although care has been taken to prevent invalid lifecycle calls from being possible, there are still some cases where this can happen.

For contract definition, it should be:

1. Begin definition

2. Multiple calls to runInteraction or your language's equivalent of runRejectingInteraction

3. End record (writing the contract).

Check that you're not accidentally reusing test instances between runs.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MISSING\_STATE\_HANDLER](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.missing_state_handler.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'MISSING\_STATE\_HANDLER'


</td><td>

The current interaction was configured to have a particular state setup handler, but it was missing.

State handlers are functions that you define to set up a particular state within your code (for example, an interaction on an HTTP provider might have a state named `'User with id 123 exists'`<!-- -->).

This error indicates that Contractcase was expecting a named state handler, but it couldn't find it.

This usually indicates a misconfiguration - check that you have provided a state handler with the exact name of the handler that was missing in the configuration of your test.

If you need help investigating this error, you can set the configuration property `logLevel` to `'DEBUG'` to see a list of the configured state handlers.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[NON\_BROKERED\_CONTRACT](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.non_brokered_contract.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'NON\_BROKERED\_CONTRACT'


</td><td>

Tried to publish verification results for a contract that doesn't have information on where to publish the verification results.

This can happen if you're sharing contracts locally, but still have publishing verification results enabled.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[OVERWRITE\_CONTRACTS\_NEEDED](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.overwrite_contracts_needed.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'OVERWRITE\_CONTRACTS\_NEEDED'


</td><td>

The existing contract didn't match the new contract being written.

This is an error when ContractCase is running in validate snapshot mode, where defined contracts are checked against the contract on disk, and a failure happens if the new contract is different.

To address this, you'll need to run contract definitions with a changedContracts behaviour set to overwrite the contract instead of check.

Please re-run your tests with one of:

- The configuration property changedContracts is set to 'OVERWRITE'

- The environment variable CASE\_changedContracts=OVERWRITE

If you see this on consecutive runs, please check that your contract doesn't contain randomness during contract definition


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[UNDOCUMENTED](./case-plugin-base.configurationerrorcodes.undocumented.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

'UNDOCUMENTED'


</td><td>

Used when there is no additional documentation for this error code.

Long term, this code should be removed, and all configuration errors should have documentation.

This code doesn't have any behaviour when set as an `adviceOverride`<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

