<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@contract-case/case-plugin-base](./case-plugin-base.md) &gt; [ContractLookupFns](./case-plugin-base.contractlookupfns.md)

## ContractLookupFns interface

The part of the context that allows saving or looking up data bound to a specific context and contract

**Signature:**

```typescript
export interface ContractLookupFns 
```

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[addDefaultVariable](./case-plugin-base.contractlookupfns.adddefaultvariable.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(name: string, stateName: string, value: AnyCaseMatcherOrData) =&gt; \[name: string, value: AnyCaseMatcherOrData\]


</td><td>

Adds a default variable to the \*contract\* (not the context). Primarily used by the state handler setup code.

It is unlikely that plugins will need to call this code.

Note that this function modifies the contract.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[addStateVariable](./case-plugin-base.contractlookupfns.addstatevariable.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(name: string, stateName: string, value: AnyCaseMatcherOrData) =&gt; \[name: string, value: AnyCaseMatcherOrData\]


</td><td>

This function adds a state variable to the \*contract\*. Primarily used by the state handler setup code.

It is unlikely that plugins will need to call this function.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[invokeFunctionByHandle](./case-plugin-base.contractlookupfns.invokefunctionbyhandle.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(handle: string, callerArguments: unknown\[\]) =&gt; Promise&lt;unknown&gt;


</td><td>

Convenience function so that mock executions can call out to user provided functions.

Primarily used by the Function plugin, but may have other uses.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[lookupMatcher](./case-plugin-base.contractlookupfns.lookupmatcher.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(uniqueName: string) =&gt; AnyCaseMatcherOrData


</td><td>

Looks up a previously saved matcher by unique name


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[lookupVariable](./case-plugin-base.contractlookupfns.lookupvariable.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(name: string) =&gt; AnyCaseMatcherOrData


</td><td>

Get a previously saved state variable, either from state or from the default value.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[saveLookupableMatcher](./case-plugin-base.contractlookupfns.savelookupablematcher.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(matcher: AnyCaseMatcher) =&gt; void


</td><td>

Saves a matcher by the unique description. The description is generated from the matcher, and may be overridden if the matcher has a uniqueName.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
