<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [@contract-case/case-plugin-base](./case-plugin-base.md)

## case-plugin-base package

## Classes

<table><thead><tr><th>

Class


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[CaseConfigurationError](./case-plugin-base.caseconfigurationerror.md)


</td><td>

Indicates that the user has configured ContractCase incorrectly.

Throw this during mock setup if you encounter configuration errors.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CaseCoreError](./case-plugin-base.casecoreerror.md)


</td><td>

Something went wrong in ContractCase internals.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CaseFailedAssertionError](./case-plugin-base.casefailedassertionerror.md)


</td><td>

This is thrown by ContractCase core when expectations set up in the test were not met.

If implementing a plugin, do not throw this during a matcher execution, instead return a [MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md) that contains the appropriate error.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CaseTriggerError](./case-plugin-base.casetriggererror.md)


</td><td>

This is thrown by ContractCase core to indicate that the user-provided trigger failed when we weren't expecting it to.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[StripUnsupportedError](./case-plugin-base.stripunsupportederror.md)


</td><td>

Tried to strip matchers from something that doesn't have an example

Throw this during `matcher.strip` execution if `strip` has been called when the results can't be reconciled without an example.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[VerifyTriggerReturnObjectError](./case-plugin-base.verifytriggerreturnobjecterror.md)


</td><td>

This is thrown by ContractCase core to indicate that the user-provided verification function failed


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Functions

<table><thead><tr><th>

Function


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[actualToString(actual, indent)](./case-plugin-base.actualtostring.md)


</td><td>

Converts actual data into a string, for printing


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[addLocation(location, context)](./case-plugin-base.addlocation.md)


</td><td>

Adds the current location to the context


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[combineResultPromises(results)](./case-plugin-base.combineresultpromises.md)


</td><td>

Combines multiple [MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md) objects / Promises containing match results.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[combineResults(results)](./case-plugin-base.combineresults.md)


</td><td>

Combines multiple [MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md) objects into one match result object


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[coreLookupMatcher(uniqueName, child)](./case-plugin-base.corelookupmatcher.md)


</td><td>

Creates a matcher descriptor for a lookupable matcher.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[errorWhen(test, err)](./case-plugin-base.errorwhen.md)


</td><td>

Helper function that will return an error if the test condition is met, or a non-erroring [MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md) otherwise.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[getPluginConfig(context, description)](./case-plugin-base.getpluginconfig.md)


</td><td>

Gets the plugin configuration (the mockConfig object keyed by your plugin short name) for the given plugin. This function validates the context and throws [CaseConfigurationError](./case-plugin-base.caseconfigurationerror.md) if the mockConfig object is not set or the key is missing. You don't need to catch this exception, you can let it bubble up to the framework for it to be rendered to the user.

This function doesn't know the expected shape of your configuration object; it's up to you to then validate the object has the appropriate fields set to valid values.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[hasErrors(result)](./case-plugin-base.haserrors.md)


</td><td>

Tests whether a given [MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md) object has any errors.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[hasNoErrors(result)](./case-plugin-base.hasnoerrors.md)


</td><td>

Tests whether a given [MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md) object has no errors.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[isCaseNode(maybeMatcher)](./case-plugin-base.iscasenode.md)


</td><td>

Type guard to determine if an object is a ContractCase matcher descriptor or not


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[makeNoErrorResult()](./case-plugin-base.makenoerrorresult.md)


</td><td>

Makes a passing [MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md) object.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[makeResults(err)](./case-plugin-base.makeresults.md)


</td><td>

Makes a [MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md) object.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[matcherToString(actual, indent)](./case-plugin-base.matchertostring.md)


</td><td>

Converts a matcher or data into a human friendly string for printing


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[matchingError(matcher, message, actual, context, expected)](./case-plugin-base.matchingerror.md)


</td><td>

Creates a mismatched matcher expectations error


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[mustResolveToNumber(matcher, context)](./case-plugin-base.mustresolvetonumber.md)


</td><td>

During a matcher execution, this function can be called to ensure that the provided matcher resolves to number.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[mustResolveToString(matcher, context)](./case-plugin-base.mustresolvetostring.md)


</td><td>

During a matcher execution, this function can be called to ensure that the provided matcher resolves to a string when stripped with `stripMatchers`<!-- -->.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[nameMock(mock, context)](./case-plugin-base.namemock.md)


</td><td>

Helper function that will name this mock if it isn't already named.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Interfaces

<table><thead><tr><th>

Interface


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[ConfigurationError](./case-plugin-base.configurationerror.md)


</td><td>

The data for a user configuration error.

Don't create this directly, use `configurationError` to create one.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ContractLookupFns](./case-plugin-base.contractlookupfns.md)


</td><td>

The part of the context that allows saving or looking up data bound to a specific context and contract


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[IsCaseNodeForType](./case-plugin-base.iscasenodefortype.md)


</td><td>

The base type for a case matcher descriptor that has this string constant


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[LogContext](./case-plugin-base.logcontext.md)


</td><td>

Part of the context with the logger attached. Useful if you just want to pass the logging functions to something. This is used in a few places where the whole context isn't available (eg, before the context has been constructed).


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[Logger](./case-plugin-base.logger.md)


</td><td>

Describes the logger object


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MatchContextByExact](./case-plugin-base.matchcontextbyexact.md)


</td><td>

If the context is assignable to this type, it indicates that the matchers should default to exact matching


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MatchContextByType](./case-plugin-base.matchcontextbytype.md)


</td><td>

If the context is assignable to this type, it indicates that the matchers should default to shape (ie, type) matching


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MatcherExecutor](./case-plugin-base.matcherexecutor.md)


</td><td>

A MatcherExecutor contains the three functions needed to execute a matcher descriptor during a run.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MatchingError](./case-plugin-base.matchingerror.md)


</td><td>

Describes the data of an error encountered during a matcher execution. Don't create these manually, use `matchingError` to create them.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[RawMatchError](./case-plugin-base.rawmatcherror.md)


</td><td>

Describes the data of an error encountered during an execution, where an expectation of a mock couldn't be met (eg, expected a call when we didn't get one)

Don't create these manually, use `failedExpectationError` to create them.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[TraversalFns](./case-plugin-base.traversalfns.md)


</td><td>

Describes the traversals available at this point in the execution


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[TriggerError](./case-plugin-base.triggererror.md)


</td><td>

The data for an error during execution of a trigger function

You shouldn't need to use this in most plugins, as the core will call it for you when necessary

Don't create this directly, use `triggerError` to create one.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[VerificationError](./case-plugin-base.verificationerror.md)


</td><td>

The data for an error during a testResponse or testErrorResponse function.

You shouldn't need to use this in most plugins, as the core will call it for you.

Don't create this directly, use `verificationError` to create one.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Variables

<table><thead><tr><th>

Variable


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[CORE\_PLUGIN\_PREFIX](./case-plugin-base.core_plugin_prefix.md)


</td><td>

DO NOT USE THIS IN YOUR OWN PLUGINS


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ERROR\_TYPE\_CONFIGURATION](./case-plugin-base.error_type_configuration.md)


</td><td>

Represents an error because of configuration during test execution


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ERROR\_TYPE\_MATCHING](./case-plugin-base.error_type_matching.md)


</td><td>

Represents an error from a matcher


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ERROR\_TYPE\_RAW\_MATCH](./case-plugin-base.error_type_raw_match.md)


</td><td>

Represents an error that would be from a matcher, but there's no physical matcher


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ERROR\_TYPE\_TEST\_RESPONSE](./case-plugin-base.error_type_test_response.md)


</td><td>

Represents an error during the testResponse or testErrorResponse function


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ERROR\_TYPE\_TRIGGER](./case-plugin-base.error_type_trigger.md)


</td><td>

Represents an error because of the user supplied trigger


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MATCH\_BY\_EXACT](./case-plugin-base.match_by_exact.md)


</td><td>

Indicates that we are doing an exact values match in this context


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MATCH\_BY\_TYPE](./case-plugin-base.match_by_type.md)


</td><td>

Indicates that we are doing a general shape match in this context


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[SERIALISABLE\_TO\_JSON](./case-plugin-base.serialisable_to_json.md)


</td><td>

Indicates that values must be serialisable to json


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Type Aliases

<table><thead><tr><th>

Type Alias


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[CaseError](./case-plugin-base.caseerror.md)


</td><td>

Union of all error data types.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CaseExample](./case-plugin-base.caseexample.md)


</td><td>

All states of Examples.

This isn't really part of the plugin interface; it's only here because the ResultPrinter needs it.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CaseMatcherFor](./case-plugin-base.casematcherfor.md)


</td><td>

Helper type to extract a case matcher descriptor out of a list of descriptors


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[CheckMatchFn](./case-plugin-base.checkmatchfn.md)


</td><td>

Checks a matcher against some actual data and returns a Promise containing a MatchResult.

For checks beyond this matcher, use  to descend into any children.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ContractCasePlugin](./case-plugin-base.contractcaseplugin.md)


</td><td>

Represents a plugin for the ContractCase contract testing framework. A plugin can defines custom matchers or mock setups for testing different cases.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DataContext](./case-plugin-base.datacontext.md)


</td><td>

Convenience type for just the parts of the context that have data - everything in this type will be serialisable.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[DefaultContext](./case-plugin-base.defaultcontext.md)


</td><td>

The settings that are set as default context for a run


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[HasExample](./case-plugin-base.hasexample.md)


</td><td>

A matcher descriptor that has an example


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[LogLevel](./case-plugin-base.loglevel.md)


</td><td>

The log levels available


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[LogLevelContext](./case-plugin-base.loglevelcontext.md)


</td><td>

LogLevelContext is the subset of the overall context object that's needed for logging. It exists so that it's possible to call log and error related functions no matter what context you're in.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MatchContext](./case-plugin-base.matchcontext.md)


</td><td>

The part of the context used during a matching run - contains traversal functions and any lookup functions that arbitrary matchers or mocks might need.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MatchResult](./case-plugin-base.matchresult.md)


</td><td>

Describes the result of calling a matcher executor. If there are no errors, the array should be empty.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MockData](./case-plugin-base.mockdata.md)


</td><td>

Represents the data produced by an invocation of a mock, ready for assertion.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MockExecutorFn](./case-plugin-base.mockexecutorfn.md)


</td><td>

A function that will set up and run a mock.

During the execution of this function, you should validate the mock descriptor is correctly formed, and any configuration properties on the context that your plugin requires are present and correctly formed.

Additionally, any listeners (eg http servers) that the mock requires should be


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[MockOutput](./case-plugin-base.mockoutput.md)


</td><td>

Represents the output state of a mock's execution, including what was expected.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[NameMatcherFn](./case-plugin-base.namematcherfn.md)


</td><td>

Extracts the name for this matcher in an English, human readable format.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[PluginDescription](./case-plugin-base.plugindescription.md)


</td><td>

Describes the plugin name and version


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[StripMatcherFn](./case-plugin-base.stripmatcherfn.md)


</td><td>

Strips the matchers from a matcher descriptor to return the raw data represented by this matcher (ie, the example data).


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ValidateMatcherFn](./case-plugin-base.validatematcherfn.md)


</td><td>

Validates the parameters of this matcher. ContractCase does two kinds of validation:

- It calls `validate(matcher)`<!-- -->, to confirm that the parameters are appropriately set (this function) - It calls `check(matcher,context, strip(matcher))`<!-- -->, to confirm that the user's example matches itself.

Because of the second check, you generally don't need to validate structure in this function. Use cases for this validation function are where only a subset of values are valid. For example, the HTTP Status Code validation function will accept the string `"200"`<!-- -->, but not the string `"The type system accepts this incorrect value"`<!-- -->.

Like the other matcher functions, use  to descend into any children.

If any of the Matcher's properties fail validation, throw a CaseConfigurationError.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
